Welcome back into session with a look at why now what's changed.
What has actually transpired that led to the renaissance of A.I..
It's gone through two winters and this latest wave led by a few factors.
Number one is the computational power.
Now the main one is GP you the cost of training this neural network has come down so extensively especially
over the last decade decade and a half.
That's because of the advent of GPO which allows parallel processing and that really lends itself really
really well to deep learning and the cause of course have come down substantially.
And the next one is data.
Now I'm sure you've heard of Big Data.
The terms of big data big part of it is because of the Internet.
Another part of it is because of the availability of video data and the other third factor is really
is mobile.
Your mobile phone which you actually walk around with on a daily basis that you access your email send
your messages load up your pictures taking pictures you know.
So those are the many things that you interact with.
That allows the proliferation and explosion of data and all those data provides the actual data that
neutral network need to become more more accurate.
There are other factors too such as advanced advances in algorithms such as activation functions weight
initialization schemes as well as optimization schemes.
No these will all cover when you come back after you finish this course you will be able to understand
these really well.
And finally of course because of the success of A.I. there are more and more money pouring into this
space.
And that's really why we have a renaissance in terms of A.I. and once it start catches on it's a positive
loop because of the amount of money that's invested into it.
There are more use cases.
People get more excited and on goes to look again and again.
All right.
So that's really part of the reason why a really quick snapshot.
If you google around you'll see a lot more reasons and a lot more in-depth explanation of it.
I just want to give you a flavor of this so that you can understand what's changed.
Why is it that suddenly is so popular now.
All right I'll see you in the next video.